---
layout: post
title:  "LeetCode Leftmost Column with at Least a One (April Challenge Day #21)" 
categories: [April Challenge]
---
## Description:
A binary matrix means that all elements are `0` or `1`. For each individual row of the matrix, this row is sorted in non-decreasing order.

Given a row-sorted binary matrix binaryMatrix, return leftmost column index(0-indexed) with at least a `1` in it. If such index doesn't exist, return `-1`.

**You can't access the Binary Matrix directly.**  You may only access the matrix using a `BinaryMatrix` interface:

- `BinaryMatrix.get(row, col)` returns the element of the matrix at index `(row, col)` (0-indexed).
- `BinaryMatrix.dimensions()` returns a list of 2 elements `[rows, cols]`, which means the matrix is `rows * cols`.
Submissions making more than `1000` calls to `BinaryMatrix.get` will be judged Wrong Answer.  Also, any solutions that attempt to circumvent the judge will result in disqualification.

For custom testing purposes you're given the binary matrix `mat` as input in the following four examples. You will not have access the binary matrix directly.

## Example:
Input: mat = [[0,0],[1,1]]

Output: 0

Input: mat = [[0,0],[0,1]]

Output: 1

Input: mat = [[0,0,0,1],[0,0,1,1],[0,1,1,1]]

Output: 1

## Solution Explanation:
The easiest way come to mind should be binary search row by row. However, the optimal solution is even more efficient, which is pretty tricky though. You start with the top right corner, and only go left or go down. Go left when the element in current position is `'1'`, go down whenn the element in current position is `'0'`. The reason why this works is because when the element of current position is `'0'`, it means that `'1'`s in this row will be on the right side of current position, which means this row is good to skip. On the contrary, if the element of current position is `'1'`, it means that you can still go left until you find the leftmost `'1'`.

## Solution:

```python
def leftMostColumnWithOne(binaryMatrix: 'BinaryMatrix') -> int:    
    rows, cols = binaryMatrix.dimensions()
    
    current_row = 0
    current_col = cols - 1
    
    while current_row < rows and current_col >= 0:
        if binaryMatrix.get(current_row, current_col) == 0:
            current_row += 1
        else:
            current_col -= 1

    return current_col + 1 if current_col != cols - 1 else -1
```
