---
layout: post
title:  "LeetCode 1029. Two City Scheduling (June Challenge Day #3)" 
lcid: 1029
categories: [June Challenge]
---
## Description:
There are `2N` people a company is planning to interview. The cost of flying the `i`-th person to city `A` is `costs[i][0]`, and the cost of flying the `i`-th person to city B is `costs[i][1]`.

Return the minimum cost to fly every person to a city such that exactly `N` people arrive in each city.

## Example:
Input: `[[10,20],[30,200],[400,50],[30,20]]`

Output: `110`

## Solution Explanation:
If you have the intuition that this problem is going to be a **Greedy Algorithm** problem, you are half way there. Since the requirement is to minimize the total cost with exact the same people in two groups, the point is: **How to decide who goes to the first group and who goes to the second group**. 

You can not use the cost of first(second) group like `x[0]` or `x[1]` as the criterion. If you ever think of the difference of `x[0]` and `x[1]`, you are in the right track. Because everyone must go to one group, you cannot skip any of them. So it is important to realize that the difference is the key, if the difference is small (like 0), no matter how big `x[0]` is, as long as `|x[0] - x[1]|` is small, it will be the same you choose `x` to first group or second group. Therefore, the idea will be: First sort the array by the difference of costs of each person, then loop through the array so that always first consider people who has big costs difference between two groups, after fill one group, the other will be done automatically.

## Solution:

```python
def twoCitySchedCost(costs: List[List[int]]) -> int:
    costs.sort(reverse=True, key=lambda x: abs(x[0]-x[1]))

    res = city1 = city2 = 0
    n = len(costs) // 2
    for cost in costs:
        if city1 == n:
            res += cost[1]
        elif city2 == n:
            res += cost[0]
        else:
            if cost[0] <= cost[1]:
                res += cost[0]
                city1 += 1
            else:
                res += cost[1]
                city2 += 1
    return res
```
