---
layout: post
title:  "LeetCode 33. Search in Rotated Sorted Array (April Challenge Day #19)" 
categories: [April Challenge]
---
## Description:
Suppose an array sorted in ascending order is rotated at some pivot unknown to you beforehand.

(i.e., `[0,1,2,4,5,6,7]` might become `[4,5,6,7,0,1,2]`).

You are given a target value to search. If found in the array return its index, otherwise return `-1`.

You may assume no duplicate exists in the array.

Your algorithm's runtime complexity must be in the order of O(log n).

## Example:
Input: `nums = [4,5,6,7,0,1,2], target = 0`

Output: `4`

Input: `nums = [4,5,6,7,0,1,2], target = 3`

Output: `-1`

## Solution Explanation:
About Rotated Sorted Array, there is a problem that is very similar [LeetCode 153. Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array]({% post_url 2020-1-30-lc153 %}). The idea is also very similar, you can always use the idea that finds out which position is the rotation point, then check whether it is in the first part or second part or not in the array. However, it will need more steps than the solution below. 

The solution below is more subtle, in each loop you need to check the middle element is in first part or second part, then choose which half you need to remove from search range. For example, the first loop in `[4,5,6,7,0,1,2]`, `nums[mid]` will be `7`, and you are looking for `0`. Before you choose go left or go right, you need to check `7` is in the first part (beginning to the rotation point) or second part (rotation point to the end). Here `7` is in the first part, and `0` is bigger than the smallest element of first part (`nums[start]`), therefore, you need to go right. 

## Solution:

```python
def search(nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
    start, end = 0, len(nums) - 1
    while start <= end:
        mid = start + (end - start) // 2
        if nums[mid] == target:
            return mid
        elif nums[mid] >= nums[start]:
            if target >= nums[start] and target < nums[mid]:
                end = mid - 1
            else:
                start = mid + 1
        else:
            if target <= nums[end] and target > nums[mid]: 
                start = mid + 1
            else:
                end = mid - 1
    return -1
```
